welcome back you're watching alra with
me S Ram a reminder of our top stories
Health authorities in Gaza say 50 people
have been killed and dozens more injured
in Israeli attacks across the strip on
Thursday more than 200 have been killed
in the past 24 hours Israel is
intensifying its campaign in Central and
Southern Gaza it says six of its
soldiers have been killed in the latest
battles with Palestinian Fighters 156
troops have died since the start of the
ground offensive and the Israeli Army
has conducted one of its largest raid
across the occupied West Bank since the
war in Gaza began at least one
Palestinian has been killed in the
confrontations and dozens injured let's
bring in man bashara alaza senior
political analyst there are so many
moving parts to this story and it's been
like this for weeks now but I just
wondered whether you had noticed a
change in tone when it comes to the
nature of the war and the way people are
talking now compared to what they've
been or how they've been talking in the
weeks previous absolutely there is
change uh the change is slow coming but
it is coming
unfortunately it comes after uh you know
tens of thousands of casualties in
Gaza uh but clearly more and more
analysts including uh among uh Israel's
darling friends in the United States and
and and the United Kingdom whereby uh
more or less observers analysts
academics beginning to talk about how
Israel is not achieving objectives why
these objectives are not achievable in
the first place and why there should be
some change of course at this point in
time not just because President Biden
would would like it not just because
America insists on it but it's also
because Israel apparently will need it
uh otherwise it's going to get stuck
with more of the same but we do have an
Israeli government that's also being
observed nowadays uh among various
observers is that Netanyahu has has a
separate agenda from that of Israel per
se he has a Personal Agenda that
involves prolonging the war in as much
as possible because he wants to move in
from being the political criminal he is
to becoming a wartime hero that's not
working very well for him now that more
and more Israeli soldiers are dying that
more and more Palestinian civilians are
dying and the Israeli public is becoming
more and more Restless a change of
course as you say involves a change of
dialogue even within the Israeli dispora
which you just talked about it feels
like there is a vying not just for
position right now in the politique but
also in the future in terms of an
election we it only seems like yesterday
when we had an Israeli election again
and again and again I think four of them
in the year but that's what it all ends
up being or or heading towards doesn't
it being in control and and setting the
agenda for the future of the state of
Israel well clearly um uh you you know
when you look at the history Israel is
like a political circus when it comes to
its politics uh every politician is a
political animal in that country and
they really VI in every possible mean uh
to get ahead and nanah is of course
Infamous for it and that's why he's in
indicted a number of uh uh uh corruption
charges because it actually involves
advancing his political career you know
against the law in within the country
but most Israelis do it now the
difference here when it comes against
the backdrop of the war is actually
quite uh
instructive we have two kinds of
politicians today in Israel we have what
you would like what we would call the
disciplined
warmongers and the undisciplined
warmongers the disciplined warmongers
are like guns and Galant who are running
a military who would like it to be
organized and they would like it to
execute orders the way it should be
executing orders even if that involves
genocide but it is an army that is
professional carrying out orders of a
state where there's a political
hierarchy and so and so forth and then
there is the undisciplined warmongers
the Rogue elements within the government
itself like the BV and the SMR and
others who encourage settlers violence
against the Palestinians who would like
to cut all Aid to the Palestinians in
Gaza who would like to cut all fuel to
the Palestinians in Gaza who would like
to crack down on prisoners who would
like to carry uh the ma the maximum
punishment sentence including killing of
prisoners and and so on so forth so you
have two kinds right and they are vying
today in a very populist way over the
future of the country the the generals
and the military disciplined individuals
like guns and and Galant and the other
Rogue elements and believe it or not the
Rogue elements are actually gaining
Traction in the country and they've been
gaining Traction in country for a good
number of years and that reminds me just
quickly of the
most famous sage in Israel's recent
history by the name of yesah he said
right after the 1967 war he said if
we're going to occupy Gaza and the West
Bank we are going to become our soldiers
will become jidu nais we will become the
occupiers the oppressors and eventually
we will become genocides that's been
predicted 55 years ago can imagine how
this country really is moving quickly
towards a more populist extreme uh kind
of uh polit politics that will
eventually lead to no place for
reconciliation and peace negotiations
with the Palestinians we'll continue to
unpick this throughout the day for the
moment M bashara thank you